what we're looking at here is the front
of a cantilevered exterior ceiling and
you see the roof on top and underneath
looks like it has a light gray or a
light grayish blue whatever that would
be ceiling and the ceiling is actually
plywood t-111 don't forget t-111 plywood
comes in a variety of different sizes
and lengths this actually looks like
it's four-inch groove spacing the
grooves on it would be four inches and
of course it does make a nice ceiling
actually used something like this on a
ceiling I built it one of my homes one
time and it turned out great however
don't forget that plywood when it is
exposed and that's what we're looking at
here the edge of the plywood is not
painted and you can see in the other
picture that the roof is sloping the
other way so you're not going to get a
lot of water off of the edge here
however if you do get enough moisture
over time the plywood what's it going to
do it's going to come apart and that's
of course what you want to prevent now I
would imagine it one time the plywood
butted up against the fascia board and
somehow the fascia board expanded I
doubt if the original builder wouldn't
have painted this area if if you could
see it like that so wouldn't be a bad
idea just paint the edge here and again
we're not talking about a two week
project we're not talking about removing
a bunch of stuff you know some type of a
home repair nightmare we're talking
about just grabbing a two-inch paint
brush and painting the edge of this to
protect your investment and again
anytime you walk around the exterior of
a building and you see exposed wood this
should be your first clue that it needs
to be painted or treated in some way
unless you know let's face it i mean if
you have some type of a would you have a
redwood deck and
you want it to stay that way you don't
want it to be treated you don't mind it
it turning gray eventually whatever this
is the look you're looking for then
obviously you wouldn't need to treat
these areas but if you do come across an
area like this and this is a good
example where you have the entire
building is painted except for one spot
or a couple of spots then wouldn't be a
bad idea to fix something like this as
soon as possible and keep in mind
replacing a ceiling like this might cost
you about let's just say a thousand
dollars but how much is it going to cost
for a can of paint and a paintbrush you
know twenty or thirty dollars let's say
and again if you're watching this video
in the year 2050 it might cost you a
hundred dollars but I would imagine the
repairs would instead of costume you a
thousand might cost you two or three
thousand if that's the case if they even
have wood in the future who knows so
anyway I will leave you with that you
come across something like this wouldn't
be a bad idea to point it out to the
property owner